>> Estelle Weyl: The thing
with a lot of icons,
this is kind of one of the other features.
And I thought this was the best
place to talk about it,
cuz using this to generate a content
is actually a really good way to do it.
So there's a lot of icons that
are completely not accessible.
So if I put this snowman,
remember that snowman 2603?
It doesn't say snowman when you're
using assistive technology.
So Google came out with
these material icons.
And you can tell that Google does not hire
enough diversity because there's one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
Eight airplane seats in the material
icons and no pregnant women.
>> Estelle Weyl: I don't know.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, they need a little
bit more diversity at Google, but
they're never gonna get it while they
still have the same hiring practices.
That was another opinionated comment.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Estelle Weyl: So
what is material icons?
If I actually were to do
a View Source > Inspect on this,
I would see a bunch of words.
And so it would be airplane_seat_flat,
airplane_seat_angled,
airplane_seat_individual_suite.
Because who here has ever been able to
get an individual suite on a plane?
This is not a material icon
that I ever need to use.
Extra leg room, I pay still for
that, legroom_normal,
legroom_reduced, that's me.
Seat recline, that's the person in
front of you that you want to punch.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay so, these are words,
this the screen reader will read, right?
So what they did is they used ligatures.
Have you ever seen an F with an I, and the
outside of the F goes to the top of the I?
That's a ligature.
So basically they use ligatures
to say basically when you have
the word airplane suite,
which one's a suite, this one?
>> Estelle Weyl: That is so
not worth $10,000 for one night.
So basically what I did here is I
have a class of material-icons.
And it starts with material-icons,
so I can just add a dash and
something else afterwards.
Margins, I'm using material,
icons, font, and
then I have antialiased and
future settings of liga.
So I'm not gonna cover fonts in-depth.
But just realize that these
are properties, like antialiased and
there's font feature settings
that you can use, like liga.
So this is something you wanna look up.
And then, with the generated content,
actually here I'm not
even using generated content,
I'm just using the word face.
So saying, when I have this font,
the ligature of f, a, c,
and e combined produces this.
>> Estelle Weyl: So here, it's generated
content, here I have the black one is
material-icons, and
the word is accessibility.
And I have accessibility Icon, so the
screen reader would read accessibility.
The sighted user would
actually see the icon.
And you generally don't
actually wanna do this,
because a lot of people don't
understand what the icon means.
So a sighted user might not know that
this means accessibility, right?
But if I change this,
just to show you that it works, a face.
You see, I typed in face,
and we get a face.
So there's a thousand of
these that you can use.
You just have to call in
the material icons font.
>> Estelle Weyl: So this is one thing
you can use with generated content.
The other interesting thing is,
there's also UTF for
browsers that don't support ligatures, and
those font features,
you can actually use the /e84e.
The only thing is, if I do this in
a browser that doesn't support it,
what happens?
If this browser doesn't
support the ligature of face,
what would be written on the bottom?
The word face because
the cascade overwrote the /e84e,
so it would actually say the word face.
So later on we're going to discuss
how you can actually feature
detect whether the browser supports
this feature, which is needed right?
And then you can, in that support
query you can just put that feature.
Okay, so accessibility.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, accessibility.
I've just been talking a lot
about accessibility but
let's go over the actual features.
Generated [COUGH] content is actually
read by most screen readers.
But it should enhance the content,
it's progressive enhancement.
It should not be the base of your,
it should not be relied upon.
>> Estelle Weyl: Because basically
generated content is part of
the presentation layer,
and content is HTML, and
you don't want to mix those concerns up.
And I'm not just saying you don't wanna
mix it up, and that's a steadfast rule and
that's why.
But this is just one of the examples of,
you want the content to actually
be on the page if it's important.
So you can use these features if you
want to improve user experience, but
don't make it a requirement
of user experience.
>> Estelle Weyl: If you're
really into accessibility,
the generated content is part of
the accessible name computation.
There's an accessibility object model, and
it is actually going to be in
there if it's not already.
And all browsers, except for Internet
Explorer, expose generated content,
expose it, and therefore,
can be read by the screen user.
>> Estelle Weyl: So in the future,
right now,
>> Estelle Weyl: Right now we
just have content, right?
We just say content: url(question.svg),
right?
In the future,
we'll be able to put a slash, and
basically a hint as to what it means.
Because those icons that I was talking to
you about, that face, the sighted user,
it's like,
I have no clue why that face is there.
And that bed line in, I had no clue
that that was an airplane suite,
because it's not in my daily lexicon.
If something is gonna be
purely decorative, like 25BA,
I have no clue with 25BA.
But like with the snowman, purely
decorative, does not add to the content or
context.
You can just put slash and
then empty quotes, so
that it won't be read
to the screen reader.
So this is providing more information,
because there is no way to put an ALT
attribute on the generated content.
I've had that picture of myself.
No screen reader user would know
that that was a picture of me.
But I could write GC SVG on the style, and
then they would know what they
were supposed to be looking at.